Article 21 explains two ways an Employee can ensure that he or
she is proficient in the competencies needed to perform
in his or her position.
The Employee can request a competency review or request
remedial training.
How does a competency review work?
Maria has worked in her position for a few years.
Today, she is required to perform a task she does not
ordinarily perform.
Maria is concerned that she is not competent to perform the task.
Article 21 has options for Maria.
Maria can inform her Supervisor that she thinks the task might
not be relevant to her position and request a Department review
of the competency associated with the task.
An appropriate Department Official will determine if the
review is necessary and provide written feedback to Maria.
Maria can then request that the written feedback be placed in
the competency file at her workplace.
This documentation may save time in the future for a Supervisor
or Employee.